# DevOps

## What is DevOps?

DevOps is a cultural and collaborative mindset that emphasizes communication,
collaboration, integration, and automation between development and operations
teams in order to achieve faster and more reliable software delivery.

DevOps is not a specific job title or role, but rather a set of practices and
principles that can be applied across a variety of roles in software development
and IT operations. Anyone involved in the software development and delivery
process can adopt a DevOps mindset and apply DevOps practices in their work,
including developers, testers, operations engineers, product managers, and
others.

## What is a DevOps Engineer?

While DevOps is not a specific job title or role, organizations often hire for a
"DevOps Engineer" role. A DevOps Engineer is a software engineer who specializes
in the practices and tools that enable the continuous delivery of software.
DevOps Engineers are responsible for the design and implementation of
applications, software, and services for their organization, and they work
closely with developers, testers, and operations staff to oversee the code
releases.

## How do Agile and DevOps interrelate?

Agile and DevOps both prioritize collaboration, continuous improvement, and
delivering working software. They can be used together to create a more
efficient software development process. Agile emphasizes iterative development
and customer satisfaction, while DevOps emphasizes automating processes and
integrating development and operations teams. When used together, Agile and
DevOps can improve software development and delivery by streamlining processes
and enhancing collaboration.

## What are some misconceptions about DevOps?

Some common misconceptions about DevOps include:

DevOps is just automation: While automation is an important part of DevOps, it's
not the only thing. DevOps is a culture that emphasizes collaboration,
communication, and integration between development and operations teams to
improve the quality and speed of software delivery.

DevOps is just a job title: DevOps is a mindset and set of practices, not a
specific job title. Anyone involved in the software development and delivery
process can adopt a DevOps mindset and apply DevOps practices in their work,
including developers, testers, operations engineers, and others.

DevOps eliminates the need for IT operations: DevOps does not eliminate the need
for IT operations. Instead, it changes the way that operations teams work by
promoting collaboration with development teams and introducing new tools and
processes for deployment, monitoring, and maintenance.

## How to become a DevOps Engineer?

To become a DevOps Engineer, you need to have technical skills in areas such as
development, automation, containerization, cloud, CI/CD pipelines etc. Some
sample tools and technologies to learn may include any programming language,
AWS, Ansible, Terraform, Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins, Git, and monitoring and
logging tools. Gain experience by working on DevOps projects, develop a DevOps
mindset, get certified, and apply for DevOps Engineer positions by highlighting
your skills and experience in your resume.

## Roadmap

[devops roadmap][https://roadmap.sh/devops]

## References

- [THE FUTURE OF OPS IS PLATFORM ENGINEERING](https://charity.wtf/2022/09/30/the-future-of-ops-is-platform-engineering/)