# Markdown Lint Tool (mdl)

Markdown is a popular markup language for creating documentation, README files,
and other forms of plain text content. However, maintaining consistent
formatting and style in Markdown documents can be challenging, especially when
collaborating with a team. To address this issue, we use a tool called `mdl`
(Markdown lint) to help ensure the quality and consistency of our Markdown
files.

## What is `mdl`?

[`mdl`]((https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint)) is a command-line tool
that analyzes Markdown documents and checks them against a set of predefined
rules. It helps identify and highlight issues such as formatting
inconsistencies, broken links, and other potential problems. By using `mdl`, we
can maintain a uniform style across our Markdown files and catch errors early in
the documentation process.

## Why Use `mdl`?

Here are some key reasons why we use `mdl` in our daily work:

1. **Consistency**: `mdl` enforces a consistent Markdown style across all our
documentation, making it easier for team members to read and contribute to
Markdown files.

2. **Error Prevention**: It helps catch errors and formatting issues before they
become problems, reducing the chances of publishing inaccurate or poorly
formatted documentation.

3. **Improved Collaboration**: By adhering to a common style guide, team members
can work more seamlessly together on Markdown files.

4. **Automated Checks**: `mdl` automates the process of checking Markdown files,
saving time and effort compared to manual inspections.

## How to Install `mdl`

To use `mdl`, you'll need to install it on your local development environment.
You can install it using RubyGems, a package manager for Ruby:

```bash
gem install mdl
```

Once installed, you can run `mdl` on your Markdown files from the command line.

## Running `mdl`

To check a Markdown file named `example.md`, you can use the following command:

```bash

mdl example.md

```

`mdl` will provide a list of any issues it finds in the file, along with
suggestions for fixing them.

## Customizing `mdl` Rules

While `mdl` comes with a set of default rules, you can also customize its
behavior by creating a `.mdlrc` configuration file in your project directory.
This allows us to tailor `mdl` to our specific needs and style preferences.

## Integrating with Our Workflow

We encourage all team members to run `mdl` on Markdown files before committing
changes. You can also consider integrating `mdl` into your continuous
integration (CI) pipeline to automatically check Markdown files as part of your
development process.

## Resources

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/markdownlint/markdownlint)